E22-230/400/900T22U Product Specification
230/400/900MHz 22dBm
LoRa Wireless Module USB InterfaceCatalog
DISCLAIMER AND COPYRIGHT NOTICE ......................................................................................................3
Ⅰ PRODUCT OVERVIEW ............................................................................................................................... 4
1.1 PRODUCT DESCRIPTION .............................................................................................................................................................................4
1.2 FEATURES ..................................................................................................................................................................................................4
1.3 APPLICATION SCENARIOS .........................................................................................................................................................................5
Ⅱ SPECIFICATION PARAMETERS .............................................................................................................. 5
2.1 RF PARAMETERS ........................................................................................................................................................................................5
2.2 HARDWARE PARAMETERS .............................................................................................................................................................................6
2.2 ELECTRICAL PARAMETERS ......................................................................................................................................................................... 6
Ⅲ PRODUCT SIZE AND HARDWARE DESCRIPTION ...................................................................................7
Ⅳ DETAILED EXPLANATION OF FUNCTIONS ........................................................................................... 8
4.1 TARGETED LAUNCH .................................................................................................................................................................................... 8
4.2 BROADCAST TRANSMISSION ....................................................................................................................................................................... 8
4.3 BROADCAST ADDRESS ................................................................................................................................................................................ 9
4.4 LISTENING ADDRESS ................................................................................................................................................................................ 9
4.5 MODULE RESET ..........................................................................................................................................................................................9
4.6 MODULE STATUS DETAIL ..........................................................................................................................................................................9
4.6.1 Module power-up initialization process ................................................................................................................9
4.6.2 Wireless transmit indication .......................................................................................................................................9
4.6.3 Modules are in the process of being configured ...........................................................................................10
4.6.4 Module mode switching process .................................................................................................................................. 10
4.6.5 Precautions ............................................................................................................................................................................10
ⅤWORKING MODE ........................................................................................................................................10
5.1 MODE SWITCHING ................................................................................................................................................................................... 11
5.2 TRANSMISSION MODE .............................................................................................................................................................................. 11
5.3 CONFIGURATION MODE ............................................................................................................................................................................12
Ⅵ REGISTER READ/WRITE CONTROL ......................................................................................................12
6.1 COMMAND FORMAT ................................................................................................................................................................................... 12
6.2 REGISTER DESCRIPTION ........................................................................................................................................................................ 13
6.3 FACTORY DEFAULT PARAMETERS ............................................................................................................................................................. 16
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
1Ⅶ RELAY NETWORKING MODE USE .......................................................................................................... 16
Ⅷ UPPER COMPUTER CONFIGURATION INSTRUCTIONS ........................................................................ 18
Ⅸ IAP FIRMWARE UPGRADE INSTRUCTIONS ......................................................................................... 19
Ⅹ HARDWARE DESIGN ............................................................................................................................... 21
Ⅺ FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ........................................................................................................22
11.1 UNSATISFACTORY TRANSMISSION DISTANCE ........................................................................................................................................ 22
11.2 MODULE IS VULNERABLE TO DAMAGE .................................................................................................................................................. 23
11.3 BER IS TOO HIGH ..............................................................................................................................................................................23
Ⅻ WELDING WORK INSTRUCTION ............................................................................................................ 23
12.1 REFLOW TEMPERATURE ..........................................................................................................................................................................23
12.2 REFLOW PROFILE ................................................................................................................................................................................. 24
XIII RELATED MODELS ............................................................................................................................. 24
XIV ANTENNA GUIDE ................................................................................................................................. 25
14.1 ANTENNA RECOMMENDATIONS ................................................................................................................................................................ 25
REVISION HISTORY ................................................................................................................................... 26
ABOUT US .................................................................................................................................................. 27
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
2Disclaimer and Copyright Notice
The information in this document, including the URL address for reference, is
subject to change without notice. this document is provided "as is" without warranty
of any kind, including any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, or non-infringement, and any warranty that any proposal, specification, or
sample is referred to elsewhere. this document disclaims all liability, including
liability for infringement of any patent rights arising out of the use of the
information in this document. no license, express or implied, to use any intellectual
property is granted herein by estoppel or otherwise.
All test data in this article are obtained from Yiburt's laboratory tests and
actual results may vary slightly.
All trade names, trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned in this article
are the property of their respective owners and are hereby declared.
The final right of interpretation belongs to Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology
Co.,Ltd.
Notice:
The contents of this manual are subject to change due to product version upgrade or other reasons. Ltd. reserves
the right to make changes to the contents of this manual without any notice or prompting. Ltd. makes every effort
to provide accurate information in this manual, but does not warrant that the contents of this manual are error-free,
nor do all statements, information and recommendations in this manual constitute any express or implied warranty.
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
3Ⅰ Product Overview
1.1 Product Description
E22-230T22U, E22-400T22U, E22-900T22U is a new generation of LoRa wireless spread spectrum module, this series
module is based on SEMTECH company's new generation of LoRa spread spectrum chip design of wireless serial port
module. It has a variety of transmission modes, respectively working in 220.125MHz ~ 236.125MHz (default
230.125MHz), 410.125 MHz ~ 493.125MHz (default 433.125MHz), 850.125 ~ 930.125MHz (default 868.125MHz), LoRa spread
spectrum technology, 5V IO port voltage, using USB standard package, easy for users to develop and use.
Communication compatible with E22-230T/400T/900T series products, support baud rate 1200 ~ 115200 bps.
E22-230T22U, E22-400T22U, E22-900T22U adopt a new generation of LoRa spread spectrum technology, the program
transmission distance is longer, faster; Support wireless configuration, carrier monitoring, automatic relay,
communication key, upgrade firmware and other functions, support subcontracting length setting, can provide
customized development services.
Note: The above diagram is the product diagram of E22-230T22U module, E22-400T22U and E22-900T22U only have
different frequency bands.
Frequency
1.2 Features

The new LoRa spread spectrum modulation technology based on the new generation of LoRa RF chip developed
by SEMTECH company brings longer communication distance and stronger anti-interference ability.

Support automatic relay networking, multi-level relay for ultra-long distance communication, and multiple
networks running simultaneously in the same area.

Support for user-set communication keys, and cannot be read, greatly improving the confidentiality of user
data.

Supporting LBT function, listening to channel environment noise before sending, which can greatly improve
the communication success rate of the module in harsh environment.

Support RSSI signal strength indication function for evaluating signal quality, improving communication
network and ranging.

Support wireless parameter configuration, send command packets through wireless, remote configuration or
read wireless module parameters.
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
4Support for fixed-point transmission, broadcast transmission, channel monitoring.
E22-400T22U supports global license-free ISM 433MHz band and supports 470MHz meter reading band.
Communication distance up to 5km under ideal conditions.
Parameter power-down saving, the module will work according to the set parameters after re-powering.
Support for IAP firmware upgrade function.
Efficient watchdog design, in case of abnormality, the module will restart automatically and can continue
to work according to the previous parameter settings.
E22-230T22U supports data transmission rates from 2.4k to 15.6kbps.
E22-400T22U supports data transfer rates from 2.4k to 62.5kbps.
E22-900T22U supports data transfer rates of 2.4k to 62.5kbps.
USB standard interface, plug and play.
Supports 4.8 to 5.5V power supply, and any power supply greater than 5V can ensure the best performance.
Industrial-grade standard design, supporting long time use under -40～+85℃.
SMA antenna interface, can be easily connected to external antennas.
Baud rate support 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600 (default), 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200 bps.
Communication compatible with E22-230T/400T/900T series products.
1.3 Application Scenarios
Home security alarms.
Smart home as well as industrial sensors, etc..
Wireless alarm security systems.
Building automation solutions.
Healthcare products.
Advanced Metering Infrastructure(AMI)
Automotive industry applications.
Ⅱ Specification parameters
2.1 RF parameters
RF parameters
Parameter Value
E22-230T22UE22-400T22UE22-900T22U
Operating220.125MHz～410.125～850.125～
Frequency236.125MHz493.125 MHz930.125MHz
Transmitting
power
Acceptance
sensitivity
22dBm
-122dBm
FIFO240 Byte
Modulation methodLoRa
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
Remark
E22-400T22U supports ISM band
Software adjustable, need user to develop their
own settings
Air rate 2.4 kbps
Packets of 32/64/128/240 bytes can be sent by
command
New generation LoRa modulation technology
5Measured distance
Clear and open environment, antenna gain 5dBi,
5 Km
antenna height 2.5m, air rate 2.4kbps
2.2 Hardware Parameters
Parameter Value
Hardware
Parameters
E22-230T22U
E22-400T22U
Communication
Remark
E22-900T22U
USB-
DIP-
USB-
Dimension45.3*27.8*11.2mm±0.2mm, plus housing with cap
Antenna FormSMA-K
Interface
Packaging
method
Interface
method
Product net
Male threaded bore, equivalent
impedance approx. 50Ω
8.4g
weight
±0.2g
2.2 Electrical parameters
E22-230T22U/E22-400T22U/E22-900T22U
ElectricalMinimuTypicaMaximuparametersm valuel valuem value4.855.5V-110-mAInstantaneous power consumption
-14-mA-
-402085℃Industrial grade design
106090%-
-402085℃-
Supply
Voltage
Emission
current
Receiving
current
Operating
temperature
Working
humidity
Storage
temperature
Unit
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
Remark
≥5.0V guaranteed output power
Over 5.5V permanently burns out the module
6Ⅲ Product size and hardware description
3
2
4
1
Serial
numberName
1Tactile switch
2
Function Description
For mode switching, long press for more than 1.5s, after releasing
the button, the mode is switched
Used to indicate the mode and module status, green constant light
indicates transmission mode, green flashing indicates data
Dual color LED
transmission process; red constant light indicates configuration mode,
red flashing indicates command response process.
3USB interfaceData exchange and power supply
4SMA-K interfaceSMA-K (male thread inner hole),antenna interface
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
7Ⅳ Detailed explanation of functions
4.1 Targeted launch
4.2 Broadcast transmission
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
84.3 Broadcast Address
Example: Set the address of module A to 0xFFFF and the channel to 0x04.
When module A is transmitting (same mode, transparent transmission mode), all receiving modules under 0x04
channel can receive data for broadcasting purpose.
4.4 Listening Address
Example: Set the address of module A to 0xFFFF and the channel to 0x04.
When module A acts as a receiver, it can receive all the data under 0x04 channel to achieve the purpose of
listening.
4.5 Module Reset

After the module is powered on, the indicator light behaves in red and carries out a hardware self-test,
as well as setting the working mode according to the user parameters.
During this process, the red indicator is always on, and when it is finished, the green indicator is always
on and it enters the transmission mode to start normal operation;.
Therefore, users need to wait for the green indicator to be always on as the starting point for the module
to work normally.
4.6 Module Status Detail
The two-color LED is used to indicate the module's operating mode and operating status.
It indicates if the module is transmitting data, or responding to a received command, or if the module is
in the process of initializing a self-test.
4.6.1 Module power-up initialization process

The module power-on indicator behaves red, indicating that the mode is in the power-on initialization self-test
process.

After the module initialization self-test is completed, the indicator switches from red to green, indicating
that the self-test is completed and the mode enters transmission mode (after the module is powered on and
reset, it enters transmission mode).
4.6.2 Wireless transmit indication

buffer empty: the data in the internal 1000-byte buffer, are written to the wireless chip (automatic
packetization).
when the green indicator is always on, the user even initiates data less than 1000 bytes, which will not
overflow.
When the green indicator blinks, the buffer is not empty: the data in the internal 1000-byte buffer, not
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
9all written to the wireless chip and open to transmit, at this time the module may be waiting for the end
of the user data timeout, or is in the process of wireless sub-packet launch.
Note: When the green light is on, it does not mean that all the serial data of the module has been emitted
through wireless, or the last packet of data is being emitted.
4.6.3 Modules are in the process of being configured
The red indicator is always on when the module is in configuration mode.
When the module receives a command, the red indicator flashes when it responds to the received command.
4.6.4 Module mode switching process

Switching mode process by light touch switch hardware.
1、Long press the light touch switch for more than 1.5s.
2、Release the light touch switch.
3、Exit the current task mode.
4、Enter the new mode task, the corresponding mode indication LED is always on, complete the mode switch.

Switching mode process by mode switching command software.
1、Send mode switch command (mode switch command needs to be turned on in configuration mode before it can
be used, and the function is turned off by default).
2、Exit the current task mode.
3、Enter the new mode task, the corresponding mode indication LED is always on, complete the mode switch.
4.6.5 Precautions
Serial
number
1
2
Note on Indicator Light
the above function, the output low level takes priority, i.e.: the indicator flashes when any of the
output low level conditions are met.
When all low level conditions are not satisfied, the indicator is always on.
When the indicator flashes, it indicates that the module is busy and no work mode detection will be
performed at this time.
ⅤWorking mode
The module has 2 modes of operation, as detailed in the following table.
ModeIndicator
lightIndicator
statusModel IntroductionRemark
Transfer
ModeGreenAlways
brightSerial port open, wireless open, transparent
transmissionSupport
special
command over-the-air
configuration
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
10Configurati
on Mode
Red
Always
bright
User can access the registers through the
serial port to control the operating status of
the module
Requires
configuration at 9600
baud rate
5.1 Mode Switching
Seri
al
Numb
er
Remark



1


For example, if a user enters a large amount of data continuously and switches modes at the same time,
the switch mode operation at this time is invalid; the module will process all user data before
performing a new mode detection.
Similarly, any mode switch, which can take advantage of this feature, will automatically enter a new
mode within 1ms after the module has processed the current mode event.
This operation method is very flexible and efficient, designed exactly according to the user's MCU
operation convenience, and can reduce the overall system workload as much as possible and improve
the system efficiency.
2
3
Users can switch the module working mode by tapping the switch or mode switching command.
When the mode is changed: if the module is idle, it can start working according to the new mode after
1ms.
If the module has serial data not yet finished transmitting through the wireless port, it can enter
the new working mode only after the transmitting is finished.
if the module receives wireless data and sends it out through the serial port, it needs to finish
sending it before it can enter the new working mode.
So the mode switching can only be effective when the mode is idle i.e. the mode indicator is always
on, otherwise the switching will be delayed.
4
5.2 Transmission mode
TypeWhen the green indicator is on, the module is in transmission mode
LaunchUsers can input data through the serial port, the module will start the wireless transmitting,
the transmitting process, the green light flashes.
ReceivingThe module wireless receiving function is turned on, the wireless data received will be output
through the serial port TXD pin, the receiving process, the green indicator flashes.
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
115.3 Configuration Mode
TypeWhen the red indicator is on, the module is in configuration mode
LaunchWireless transmit off
ReceivingWireless reception off
Configuratio
n
The user can access the registers and thus configure the module operating status, the command
response process, and the red indicator flashes.
Ⅵ Register read/write control
6.1 Command Format
The list of supported commands in configuration mode (mode 2: M1=1, M0=0) is as follows (when set, only 9600,
8N1 format is supported)：
Seri
al
numb
er
Command Format
Detailed description
Instruction: C0+start address+length+parameter
Response: C1+start address+length+parameters
1
Set register
Example 1: Configure the channel as 0x09
Command Start address Length Parameter
Send: C0 05 01 09
Return: C1 05 01 09
Example 2: Configure module address (0x1234), network address (0x00), serial port
(9600 8N1), air speed (2.4K) at the same time
Send: C0 00 04 12 34 00 62
Return: C1 00 04 12 34 00 62
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
12Instruction: C1+start address+length
Response: C1+start address+length+parameters
2
Read register
Example 1: Read channel
Command Start address Length Parameter
Send：C1 05 01
Return: C1 05 01 09
Example 2: Read module address, network address, serial port, null speed (2.4K) at
the same time
Send: C1 00 04
Return: C1 00 04 12 34 00 62
Instruction: C2 + start address + length + parameters
Response: C1 + start address + length + parameters
3
Set temporary
register
Example 1: Configure the channel as 0x09
Command Start address Length Parameter
Send: C2 05 01 09
Return: C1 05 01 09
Example 2: Configure module address (0x1234), network address (0x00), serial port
(9600 8N1), air speed (2.4K) at the same time
Send: C2 00 04 12 34 00 62
Return: C1 00 04 12 34 00 62
Command: CF CF + General command
Response: CF CF + general response
5
Wireless
Configuration
Example 1: Wireless configuration channel is 0x09
Wireless Command Header Command Start Address Length Parameter
Send: CF CF C0 05 01 09
Return: CF CF C1 05 01 09
Example 2: Wireless simultaneously configure module address (0x1234), network
address (0x00), serial port (9600 8N1), null speed (2.4K)
Send: CF CF C0 00 04 12 34 00 62
Return: CF CF C1 00 04 12 34 00 62
6
Format error
Format Error Response
FF FF FF
6.2 Register Description
Rea
Serial
Number
d
and
Name
Description
Remark
wri
te
00H
01H
Rea
d
and
wri
te
Rea
d
and
Module address high byte and low
ADDH
ADDH（Default 0）
byte.
Note: When the module address is
equal to FFFF, it can be used as a
ADDL
ADDL（Default 0）
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
broadcast and listening address,
i.e.: the module will not be address
1302H
wri
tefiltered at this time
Rea
d
and
wri
teNetwork
NETID
765
000
001
010
011
100
0
1
It should be set to the same when
REG0
wri
te
UART Serial port rate（bps）
The serial port baud rate is
1200
The serial port baud rate is
2400
The serial port baud rate is
The serial port baud rate is
9600（Default）
The serial port baud rate is
d
and
wri
te
REG1
When transmitting larger packets in
succession, users need to consider
data blocking and even possible loss
due to the same baud rate.
19200
The serial port baud rate is
It is generally recommended that
both communicating parties have the
38400
The serial port baud rate is
10
111
43Serial port parity bits
008N1（Default）
018O1
108E1
118N1（Equivalent 00）
21
same baud rate.
57600
The serial port baud rate is
115200
The serial port mode can be different
for both sides of the communication.
Wireless Air Speed（bps）
0
E22-230T22U
Rea
two modules communicating with each
other, the serial port baud rates can
be different and the checksums can be
different.
4800
1
d
04H
distinguish
communicating with each other.
Rea
and
to
between networks.
NETID（Default 0）
1
03H
address
E22-400T22U
E22-900T22U
0002.4k0012.4k0102.4k（Default）0112.4k4.8k4.8k
1004.8k9.6k9.6k
1019.6k19.2k19.2k
11015.6k38.4k38.4k
11115.6k62.5k62.5k
76Subcontracting settings00240 Bytes（Default）01128 Bytes1064 Bytes1132 Bytes
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
The air rate must be the same for both
sides of the communication.
The higher the air rate, the lower
the delay and the shorter the
transmission distance.
If the user sends data smaller than
the packetization length, the output
of the serial port at the receiving
end is presented as uninterrupted
continuous output.
When the user sends data larger than
the packet length, the serial port
145RSSI Environmental Noise Enable
0Disable (default)
1Enable
43
output at the receiving end will be
divided into packets.
When enabled, the command C0 C1 C2 C3
can be sent in transmission mode Read
register.
Register 0x00 : current ambient
noise RSSI.
Register 0x01 : RSSI at the last
received data
(current channel noise is: dBm =
-RSSI/2).
Command format: C0 C1 C2 C3 + start
address + read length.
Return: C1 + address + read length +
read valid value; e.g.: send C0 C1 C2
C3 00 01
return C1 00 01 RSSI (address can
only start from 00)
Reserved
2Software Mode SwitchingIf you do not want to use a light
0Disable (default)touch switch to switch the operating
mode, you can enable this function
and use a specific serial command to
switch the mode.
Format: C0 C1 C2 C3 02 + working mode
1
Send C0 C1 C2 C3 02 00 to switch to
Enable
pass-through mode
Send C0 C1 C2 C3 02 01 to switch to
configuration mode
Return: C1 C2 C3 02 + working mode
10Transmitting power
0022dBm（Default）
0117dBm
1013dBm
1110dBm
Power and current are non-linearly
related, with the power supply being
most efficient at maximum power.
The current does not decrease in the
same proportion as the power
Channel Control (CH)
E22-230T22U
channels respectively
Rea
Channel Control (CH)
d
05H
and
0-64 represent a total of 65
REG2
E22-400T22U
0-83 represent a total of 84
wrichannels respectively
teChannel Control (CH)
E22-900T22U
0-80 represent a total of 81
channels respectively
Rea
06H
d
and
wri
REG3
decreases.
Actual frequency of 230 band =
220.125 + CH*0.25M
400 band actual frequency = 410.125
+ CH *1M
900 band actual frequency = 850.125
+ CH *1M
7Enable RSSI bytes0Disable (default)1EnableWhen enabled, the module will follow
an RSSI intensity byte when it
receives wireless data and outputs
it through the serial port TXD.
6Transmission methodFor fixed-point transmission, the
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
15te
07H
Wri
te
CRYPT_H
0Transparent transmission (default)
1Fixed-point transmission
5Relay function
0Disable relay function (default)
1Enable Relay Function
4LBT enable
0Disable (default)
1Enable
32
1
0
module identifies the money three
bytes of the serial data as: address
high + address low + channel, and
uses them as the wireless
transmitting target.
When the relay function is enabled,
the module will initiate a
forwarding if the destination
address is not the module itself.
To prevent data backhaul, it is
recommended to use with fixed-point
mode; i.e., the destination address
is different from the source
address.
When enabled, wireless data is
listened before transmitting, which
can avoid interference to a certain
extent, but may bring data delay.
The maximum dwell time of LBT is 2
seconds, and it will be forced to
send out when it reaches two seconds.
Reserved
Write-only, with reads returning 0.
Used for encryption to avoid
interception of over-the-air
wireless data by similar modules.
Key High Byte (default 0)
These two bytes will be used
08H
Wri
te
CRYPT_L
internally by the module as
Key low byte (default 0)
calculation factors to transform the
over-the-air radio signal for
encryption.
80H～86H
Rea
d
PID
Product information 7 bytes
Product information 7 bytes
6.3 Factory default parameters
Signa
l
Chann
elAir RateBaud
rateSerial
port
formatTransmit
ting
powerDefault Parameters
ModelFrequencyAddres
sE22-230T22U230.125MHz0x00000x282.4kbps96008N122dbmC0 00 09 00 00 00 62 00 28 03 00 00
E22-400T22U433.125MHz0x00000x172.4kbps96008N122dbmC0 00 09 00 00 00 62 00 17 03 00 00
E22-900T22U868.125MHz0x00000x122.4kbps96008N122dbmC0 00 09 00 00 00 62 00 12 03 00 00
Ⅶ Relay networking mode use
Seria
Relay mode description
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
16l
Numbe
r
1After setting the trunk mode through the configuration mode, switch to the general mode and the trunk starts to
work.
2ADDH,ADDL are no longer used as module addresses in relay mode, but are forwarded to the pair corresponding to
the NETID respectively, and if one of the networks is received, it is forwarded to the other network.
The relay's own network ID is invalid.
3In relay mode, the relay module cannot send and receive data and cannot perform low-power operation.
4The module resets the user parameters during the user reset.
Relay networking rules description.
1、Forwarding rules, relay can forward data in both directions between two NETIDs.
2、In relay mode, ADDH\ADDL is no longer used as a module address and forwarded as a NETID pair.
As pictured.
1
Level 1 Relay
"Node 1" NETID is 08.
"Node 2" NETID is 33.
The ADDH\ADDL of relay 1 is 08, 33 respectively.
So the signal sent by node 1 (08) can be forwarded to node 2 (33)
Also node 1 and node 2 have the same address, so the data sent by node 1 can be received by node 2.
2
Secondary Relay
The ADDH\ADDL of Relay 2 is 33, 05, respectively.
So Relay 2 can forward data from Relay 1 to network NETID: 05.
Thus, node 3 and node 4 can receive the node 1 data. Node 4 outputs data normally and node 3 has a different address
from node 1, so it does not output data.
3
Two-way relay
As configured in the figure: the data sent by node 1 can be received by nodes 2 and 4, and the data sent by nodes
2 and 4 can be received by node 1.
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
17Ⅷ Upper computer configuration instructions
The following figure shows the display interface of E22 configuration upper computer. Users can switch to
the configuration mode by long press of the button for quick configuration and reading of parameters in the
upper computer.
In the configuration upper computer, the module address, frequency channel, network ID, and key are displayed
in decimal mode; where each parameter takes the following value range.
Network Address：0～65535
Frequency Channel：0～83
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
18Network ID：0～255
Key：0～65535

Users need to pay special attention when using the upper computer to configure the relay mode, because in
the upper computer, the parameters are displayed in decimal mode, so the module address and network ID need
to be filled in by converting the decimal；
If the network ID entered at transmitter A is 02 and the network ID entered at receiver B is 10, the hexadecimal
value 0X020A is converted to the decimal value 522 as the module address to be filled in by relay R when
setting the module address.
That is, the module address value that needs to be filled in at this time at the relay end R is 522.
Ⅸ IAP firmware upgrade instructions
IAP (In Application Programming) is the online application programming, this module uses this method to upgrade
the firmware online on the serial port. Meanwhile, this series module supports two ways to enter online upgrade
mode: upper computer command and long press button.

Upgrading of upper computer commands
1、to put the module into configuration mode by pressing the key (note: the baud rate in configuration mode is
9600).
2、Open the official website to configure the upper computer "RF_Setting (E22-E9X (SL)) V2.7. exe", and select
Serial Port > Open;
3、Click Get to view the module information in the left window of the upper computer;
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
194、Click Download mode > Click Open File (select Firmware. bin file)> Click Download;
5、Click 确定（OK），Firmware upgrade starts；
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
206、Click 确定（OK），Firmware upgrade completed；

Long press the button to enter the upgrade mode
1、Press the keys long before the module is powered on, and ensure that the keys are kept for at least 1s of continuous
long press time after power on.
2、wait for the serial port continuous output "C" character (baud rate 115200) can release the button, according
to the above "upper computer command upgrade" mode of operation;
3、Wait for the module to reset automatically and upgrade successfully.
Remark：
1、Press and hold the button for more than 1s when upgrading by button and then release the button.
2、the upper computer command upgrade logic: the upper computer send: "AT + IAP", the module reply: "AT +
IAP = OK", wait for the module automatically reset into the IAP upgrade mode. The serial port output "C" character
indicates that the module is waiting to receive the firmware bin file, after the host computer detects the character
"C", it starts to send the bin file in packets automatically. After receiving, the module will automatically
reset into the application and the upgrade is completed.
Ⅹ Hardware Design

Recommend using a DC regulated power supply to power the module with as small a ripple coefficient as possible,
and the module needs to be reliably grounded.

；Please pay attention to the correct connection of the positive and negative terminals of the power supply,
as a reversed connection may cause permanent damage to the module.

Please check the power supply to ensure that it is between the recommended supply voltage, if it exceeds
the maximum value it may cause permanent damage to the module.

Please check the stability of the power supply, the voltage should not fluctuate significantly and frequently.
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
21
When designing the power supply circuit for the module, it is often recommended to retain more than 30% margin
to have the whole machine conducive to long-term stable operation.

modules should be as far as possible from the power supply, transformers, high-frequency alignments and other
parts of the electromagnetic interference.

High-frequency digital alignment, high-frequency analog alignment, power supply alignment must be avoided
below the module, if it is really necessary to pass below the module, assuming that the module is soldered
in the Top Layer, in the module contact part of the Top Layer pavement copper (all pavement copper and good
grounding), must be close to the digital part of the module and alignment in the Bottom Layer.

Assuming that the module is soldered or placed in the Top Layer, it is also wrong to run wires randomly in
the Bottom Layer or other layers, which will affect the spurious and reception sensitivity of the module
to varying degrees.

Assuming that there are large electromagnetic interference devices around the module will also greatly affect
the performance of the module, according to the strength of the interference is recommended to be properly
away from the module, if the situation allows the appropriate isolation and shielding.

Assuming that there are large electromagnetic interference alignments around the module (high-frequency
digital, high-frequency analog, power supply alignments) will also greatly affect the performance of the
module, according to the intensity of the interference, it is recommended to keep away from the module, and
if the situation permits, appropriate isolation and shielding can be done.

communication line if the use of 5V level, must be connected in series with 1k-5.1k resistors (not recommended,
there is still a risk of damage).
try to stay away from some of the physical layer is also 2.4GHz TTL protocol, for example: USB3.0.
the antenna mounting structure has a big impact on the module performance, make sure the antenna is exposed
and preferably vertically upwards.

When the module is installed inside the case, you can use high quality antenna extension cable to extend
the antenna to the outside of the case.

The antenna must not be installed inside the metal case, it will cause the transmission distance to be greatly
weakened.
Ⅺ Frequently Asked Questions
11.1 Unsatisfactory transmission distance
A corresponding attenuation of communication distance when linear communication barriers exist.
Temperature, humidity, and co-channel interference, which can lead to higher communication packet loss rates.
The ground absorbs and reflects radio waves, and the test effect is poor near the ground.
seawater has a very strong ability to absorb radio waves, so the seaside test effect is poor.
metal objects near the antenna, or placed in a metal shell, signal attenuation will be very serious.
Wrong setting of power register, too high setting of air rate (the higher the air rate, the closer the distance).
the low voltage of the power supply at room temperature is lower than the recommended value, the lower the
voltage the less power is generated
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
22
The use of antenna and module match the degree of poor or antenna itself quality problems.
11.2 Module is vulnerable to damage

Please check the power supply to ensure that it is between the recommended supply voltages, as exceeding
the maximum will cause permanent damage to the module.
Please check the stability of the power supply, the voltage should not fluctuate significantly and frequently.
Please ensure that the installation and use process anti-static operation, high-frequency devices
electrostatic sensitivity.

Please ensure that the installation and use process humidity should not be too high, some components are
humidity-sensitive devices.

If there is no special demand is not recommended to use at too high or too low temperature.
11.3 BER is too high

Nearby interference with the same frequency signal, away from the source of interference or modify the
frequency, channel to avoid interference.

unsatisfactory power supply may also cause garbled codes, be sure to ensure the reliability of the power
supply.

Poor quality or too long extension cable or feeder line may also cause high BER.
Ⅻ Welding work instruction
12.1 Reflow Temperature
Reflow profile characteristics
Preheat/hold
Leaded process assemblyLead-free process assembly
Minimum temperature
（Tsmin）100℃150℃
Maximum temperature
（Tsmax）150℃200℃
Time（Tsmin~Tsmin）60-120 Seconds60-120 Seconds
Slope of temperature increase（TL~Tp） 3℃/Second，Maximum value
3℃/Second，Maximum value
Liquid phase temperature（TL）183℃217℃
Hold time above TL60~90 Second60~90 Second
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
23Peak temperature of the package TpThe user must not exceed the
temperature indicated on
the "Moisture Sensitivity"
label of the product.The user must not exceed the
temperature indicated on
the "Moisture Sensitivity"
label of the product.
At the specified classification
temperature（Tc）Time within 5℃（Tp）,
See the chart below20 Seconds30 Seconds
Cooling slope（Tp~TL）6℃/ Second，Maximum value6℃/ Second，Maximum value
Room temperature to peak temperature
time6 minutes，Longest8 minutes，Longest
※The peak temperature (Tp) tolerance of the temperature profile is defined as the upper limit
of the user
12.2 Reflow Profile
XIII Related Models
Model
FrequencyTransmittinTest
Hzg power dBmDistance
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
Package form
Product SizeCommuni
mmcation
24km
Interfa
ce
E22-230T22S230M225SMD16*26TTL
E22-230T30S230M3010SMD20*40.5TTL
E22-400T22S433/470M225SMD16*26TTL
E22-400T30S433/470M3010SMD20*40.5TTL
E22-900T22S868/915M225SMD16*26TTL
E22-900T30S868/915M3010SMD20*40.5TTL
E22-400M22S433/470M227SMD14*20SPI
E22-400M30S433/470M3012SMD24*38.5SPI
E22-900M22S868/915M227SMD14*20SPI
E22-900M30S868/915M3012SMD24*38.5SPI
XIV Antenna Guide
14.1 Antenna Recommendations
Antenna is an important role in the communication process, often poor quality antenna will have a great impact
on the communication system, so we recommend some antennas as supporting our wireless module and more excellent
performance and reasonable price.
Model
TX433-NP-4310
TX433-JZ-5
TX433-JZG-6
TX433-JW-5
TX433-JWG-7
TX433-JK-11
Type
Flexible
Antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Frequency
Hz
433M
Interface
Welding
GainHeightFeeders
dBimmcm
2.043.8*9.5-
Features
Built-in flexible,
FPC soft antenna
Ultra Short Straight,
433M
SMA-J
2.0
52
-
Omni-directional
Antenna
Ultra Short Straight,
433M
SMA-J
2.5
62
-
Omni-directional
Antenna
Bendable glue stick,
433M
SMA-J
2.0
50
-
omni-directional
antenna
Bendable glue stick,
433M
SMA-J
2.5
75
-
omni-directional
antenna
433M
SMA-J
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
2.5
110
-
Bendable glue stick,
omni-directional
25antenna
TX433-JK-20
TX433-XPL-100
TX433-XP-200
TX433-XPH-300
TX490-JZ-5
TX490-XPL-100
Glue Stick
Antenna
Suction cup
antenna
Suction cup
antenna
Suction cup
antenna
Glue Stick
Antenna
Suction cup
antenna
Bendable glue stick,
433M
SMA-J
3.0
210
-
omni-directional
antenna
Small suction cup
433M
SMA-J
3.5
185
100
antenna, cost
effective
433MSMA-J4.0190200
433MSMA-J6.0965300
Neutral suction cup
antenna with low loss
Large suction cup
antenna, high gain
Ultra Short Straight,
470/490M
SMA-J
2.0
50
-
Omni-directional
Antenna
Small suction cup
470/490M
SMA-J
3.5
120
100
antenna, cost
effective
Revision History
VersionRevision DateRevision NotesMaintainer
1.02022.11.17Initial VersionBin
1.12024.04.16Content revisionBin
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
26About Us
Sales Hotline：4000-330-990
Technical Support：support@cdebyte.com
Official Website：https://www.cdebyte.com
Company Address：Building B5, No.199 West Avenue, Gaoxin West District,
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
Copyright ©2012–2024， Chengdu Ebyte Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd.
27